{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb240\sa60\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1\fs28\kerning28 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\i\f1 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \f1 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\s4\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\f1 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 4;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footnote text;}{\*\cs16 \additive \super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s17\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext17 header;}{\s18\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \sbasedon0 \snext18 footer;}}{\info{\title Solving Problems}{\author Abigail Gertner}{\operator LRDC}{\creatim\yr1999\mo8\dy18\hr17\min34}{\revtim\yr1999\mo8\dy18\hr17\min43}{\printim\yr1997\mo9\dy1\hr18\min18}
{\version3}{\edmins3}{\nofpages46}{\nofwords633}{\nofchars3610}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws4433}{\vern113}}\paperw5760\paperh2880\margl360\margr360\margt360\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \li115\ri130\widctlpar\adjustright {\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain 
\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ bodytoplot}}}{\f1\fs22  }{\b\f1\fs22 Body to plot}{\f1\fs22 :  The object whose motion you are describing
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ sketch}}}{\f1\fs22  }{\b\f1\fs22 Sketch}{\f1\fs22 
:  A graphical summarization of the problem. You can use this to see all of the relevant example data at once.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ find}}}{\f1\fs22  }{\b\f1\fs22 Find statement}{\f1\fs22 :  The problem statement identifying the unknowns that you are solving for
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ resultant}}}{\f1\fs22  }{\b\f1\fs22 Resultant Velocity Vector}{\f1\fs22 :  The sum of the horizontal and vertical components of the velocity
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_ANGLE}}}{\f1\fs22  The angle counterclockwise from the horizontal (in degrees).
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_MULTIPLE_BODY_LIST}}}{\f1\fs22  Selection turns on or off each time an object is clicked. Any number of objects may be selected.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_SYSTEM_NAME}}}{\f1\fs22 
 The label can be any combination of letters and numbers.  Punctuation and other non-alphanumeric characters are not allowed.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_VECTOR_NAME_TEXT}}}{\f1\fs22 
 The label can be any combination of letters and numbers and is interpreted as the magnitude of the vector.  Punctuation and other non-alphanumeric characters are not allowed. 
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_CUSTOM_LABEL}}}{\f1\fs22  The label can be any combination of letters and numbers 
and is interpreted as the magnitude of the vector.  Punctuation and other non-alphanumeric characters are not allowed. Andes may supply a standard prefix which cannot be edited.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_ANGLE_NAME}}}{\f1\fs22  The label can be any combination of letters and numbers. 
Punctuation and other non-alphanumeric characters are not allowed.  For Greek letters, use the }{\b\f1\fs22 Go Greek!}{\f1\fs22  Button.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_GREEKBTN}}}{\f1\fs22  Brings up a menu of the Greek alphabet.  Clicking on a Greek letter labels the angle accordingly.}{\b\f1\fs22 \page }{
\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_DEGREES}}}{\f1\fs22  The magnitude of the angle is computed automatically
\par }{\b\f1\fs22 \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_RADIUS}}}{\f1\fs22 
 The radius can be changed from within the dialog box.  The minimum radius is 20.  The maximum depends on the length of the vectors.
\par }{\b\f1\fs22 \page }{\cs16\b\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_ORIENTATION_TEXT}}}{\b\f1\fs22  }{\f1\fs22 Change the direction of the vector from within the dialog box.
\par \page }{\cs16\b\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ expand}}}{\b\f1\fs22  }{\f1\fs22 To expand a step in the plan, click on the [+] icon to its left.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDOK}}}{\f1\fs22  To close this dialog box and save any changes you\rquote ve made, click OK.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDCANCEL}}}{\f1\fs22  To close this dialog box without saving any changes you have made, click Cancel.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_SPIN1}}}{\f1\fs22  Use this spin control to increase or decrease the radius.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_TIME_TEXT}}}{\f1\fs22 
 Select the exact moment or period in time that the described object exists.  If nothing is selected, the time period is assumed to be the entire problem.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_AGENT}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the agent that is exerting the force.  This window will be disabled when net force is selected.  }{\b\f1\fs22 Net force}{
\f1\fs22  has }{\b\f1\fs22 no individual agent}{\f1\fs22 .
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_BODY_TEXT}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the object of interest, the object that the force acts upon.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_AVBODY_TEXT}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the object of interest, the object that is experiencing this velocity, acceleration or displacement.
\par }{\b\f1\fs22 \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_FORCE_TYPE}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the specific type of force.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_DIRECTION_TEXT}}}{\f1\fs22  Change the direction of the axis from within the dialog box.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_DIRECTION_SPIN}}}{\f1\fs22  Use this spin control to increase or decrease the size of the angle.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_COMP_DIRECTION}}}{\f1\fs22  Choose the axis that is in the same direction as this component.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_COMPONENT_OF}}}{\f1\fs22  Select a vector to decompose.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_MOTION_BODY_LIST}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the object whose motion you will be describing.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_DEFAULT_TIMES}}}{\f1\fs22  Select a generic time interval: delta t.  As you draw your body\rquote s position over time, the time points will 
be labeled t0, t1, t2...
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_MEASURED_TIMES}}}{\f1\fs22  Select a specific time interval.  As you draw your body\rquote 
s position over time, the time points will be labeled according to this time interval.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_TIME_INTERVAL}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the number of time units in this interval.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_TIME_UNITS}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the specific time units: hours, minutes or seconds.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_ADD}}}{\f1\fs22  To declare a new variable, click Add Variable.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_MODIFY}}}{\f1\fs22  To modify an existing variable, select the variable you would like to change and click Modify Variable.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_DELETE}}}{\f1\fs22  To delete an existing variable, select the variable you would like to remove and click Delete Variable.\page }{
\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_CLOSE}}}{\f1\fs22  To close the variable list dialog box, click Close.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_WHATSWRONG}}}{\f1\fs22  To find out why a variable is incorrect (marked with a red X), select the incorrect variable and click What\rquote s Wrong.

\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_LIST1}}}{\f1\fs22  Displays a list of declared variables, including those variables indirectly declared by the drawing of an object.  Once a 
variable is declared, it can be used in an equation.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_VARIABLE}}}{\f1\fs22 
 The label can be any combination of letters and numbers and, once defined, can be used in an equation.  Punctuation and other non-alphanumeric characters are not allowed. 
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_AGENT_LIST}}}{\f1\fs22 
 Select the agent that is exerting the force.  This list will only be enabled when you are declaring a Force variable other than Net Force. \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{
 HIDC_TIME_LIST}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the exact moment or period in time that the variable refers to.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_OBJECT_LIST}}}{\f1\fs22  Select the object of interest.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_VALUE_LIST}}}{\f1\fs22  Select a quantity to represent.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_DECLARATION}}}{\f1\fs22 
 This sentence will be automatically created from selections made above. Make selections to fill in any blanks in this sentence.
\par \page }{\cs16\f1\fs22\super #{\footnote \pard\plain \s15\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\cs16\super #}{ HIDC_RESET}}}{\f1\fs22  To reset the dialog box so that nothing is selected, click Reset.
\par 
\par }}